# 2017年6月大学英语六级听力真题原文及问题（两套完整版）

## 第一套

### Part Ⅱ Listening Comprehension (30 minutes)

#### Section A
Directions: In this section, you will hear two long conversations. At the end of each conversation, you will hear four questions. Both the conversation and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.

##### Conversation One
W: Welcome to Work Place. And in today's program, we're looking at the results of two recently published surveys, which both deal with the same topic - happiness at work. John, tell us about the first survey.

M: Well, this was done by a human resources consultancy, who interviewed more than 1,000 workers, and established a top ten of the factors, which make people happy at work. The most important factor for the majority of the people interviewed was having friendly, supportive colleagues. In fact, 73% of people interviewed put their relationship with colleagues as the key factor contributing to happiness at work, which is a very high percentage. The second most important factor was having work that is enjoyable. The two least important factors were having one's achievements recognized, and rather surprisingly, earning a competitive salary.

W: So, we are not mainly motivated by money?

M: Apparently not.

W: Any other interesting information in the survey?

M: Yes. For example, 25% of the working people interviewed described themselves as 'very happy' at work. However, 20% of employees described themselves as being unhappy.

W: That's quite a lot of unhappy people at work every day.

M: It is, isn't it? And there were several more interesting conclusions revealed by the survey. First of all, small is beautiful: people definitely prefer working for smaller organizations or companies with less than 100 staff. We also find out that, generally speaking, women were happier in their work than men.

W: Yes, we are, aren't we?

M: And workers on part-time contracts, who only work 4 or 5 hours a day, are happier than those who work full-time. The researchers concluded that this is probably due to a better work-life balance.

W: Are bosses happier than their employees?

M: Yes, perhaps not surprisingly, the higher people go in a company, the happier they are. So senior managers enjoy their jobs more than people working under them.

**Questions 1 to 4 are based on the conversation you have just heard.**
1. What is the No.1 factor that made employees happy according to the survey?
2. What is the percentage of the people surveyed who felt unhappy at work?
3. What kind of companies are popular with employees?
4. What is the possible reason for people on part-time contracts to be happier?

##### Conversation Two
W: Mr. De Keyzer, I'm a great lover of your book Moments Before the Flood. Can you tell us how you first became interested in this subject matter?

M: In 2006, when the concert hall of the city of Bruges asked me to take some pictures for a catalogue for a new concert season around the theme of water, I found myself working along the Belgian coastline. As there had been numerous alarming articles in the press about a climate catastrophe waiting to happen, I started looking at the sea and the beach very differently, a place where I spent so many perfect days as a child. This fear of a looming danger became the subject of a large-scale photo project.

W: You wrote in the book: "I don't want to photograph the disaster, I want to photograph the disaster waiting to happen." Can you talk a bit about that?

M: It is clear now that it is a matter of time before the entire European coastline disappears under water. The same goes for numerous big cities around the world. My idea was to photograph this beautiful and very unique coastline, rich in history, before it's too late—as a last witness.

W: Can you talk a bit about how history plays a role in this project?

M: Sure. The project is also about the history of Europe looking at the sea and wondering when the next enemy would appear. In the images, you see all kinds of possible defense constructions to hold back the Romans, Germans, Vikings, and now nature as enemy number one. For example, there is the image of the bridge into the sea taken at the Normandy D-Day landing site. Also, Venice, the city eternally threatened by the sea, where every morning wooden pathways have to be set up to allow tourists to reach their hotels.

W: Thank you, Mr. De Keyzer. It was a pleasure to have you with us today.

**Questions 5 to 8 are based on the conversation you have just heard.**
5. What does the man say about the book Moments Before the Flood?
6. When did the man get his idea for the work?
7. What will happen when the climate catastrophe occurs?
8. What does the man say about Venice?

#### Section B
Directions: In this section, you will hear two passages. At the end of each passage, you will hear three or four questions. Both the passage and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.

##### Passage One
When facing a new situation, some people tend to rehearse their defeat by spending too much time anticipating the worst. I remember talking with a young lawyer who was about to begin her first jury trial. She was very nervous. I asked what impression she wanted to make on the jury. She replied: "I don't want to look too inexperienced, I don't want them to suspect this is my first trial." This lawyer had fallen victims to the don'ts syndrome—a form of negative goals setting. The don'ts can be self-fulfilling because your mind response to pictures.

Research conducted at Stanford University shows a mental image fires the nerve system the same way as actually doing something. That means when a golfer tells himself: "Don't hit the ball into the water." His mind sees the image of the ball flying into the water. So guess where the ball will go?

Consequently, before going into any stressful situation, focus only on what you want to have happen. I asked the lawyer again how she wanted to appear at her first trial. And this time she said: "I want to look professional and self-assured." I told her to create a picture of what self-assured would look like. To her, it meant moving confidently around the court room, using convincing body language and projecting her voice, so it could be heard from the judge's bench to the back door. She also imagined a skillful closing argument and a winning trial. A few weeks after this positive dress rehearsal, the young lawyer did win.

**Questions 9 to 12 are based on the passage you have just heard.**
9. What do some people do when they face a new situation?
10. What does the research conducted at Stanford University show?
11. What advice does the speaker give to people in a stressful situation?
12. What do we learn about the lawyer in the court?

##### Passage Two
Most Americans don't eat enough fruits, vegetables or whole grains. Researchers now say adding fiber to the teen diet may help lower the risk of breast cancer.

Conversations about the benefits of fiber are probably more common in nursing homes than high schools. But along comes a new study that could change that. Kristi King, a diet specialist at Texas Children's Hospital, finds it's hard to get teenage patients' attention about healthy eating. But telling them that eating lots of high-fiber foods could reduce the risk of breast cancer before middle age. That's a powerful message.

The new finding is based on a study of 44,000 women. They were surveyed about their diets during high school, and their eating habits were tracked for two decades. It turns out that those who consumed the highest levels of fiber during adolescence had a lower risk of developing breast cancer, compared to the women who ate the least fiber. This important study demonstrates that the more fiber you eat during your high school years, the lower your risk is in developing breast cancer in later life.

The finding points to long-standing evidence that fiber may reduce circulating female hormone levels, which could explain the reduced risk. The bottom line here is the more fiber you eat, perhaps, a lower level of hormone in your body, and therefore, a lower lifetime risk of developing breast cancer. High-fiber diets are also linked to a reduced risk of heart disease and diabetes. That's why women are told to eat 25 grams of fiber a day - men even more.

**Questions 13 to 15 are based on the passage you have just heard.**
13. What does the new study tell about adding fiber to the teen diet?
14. What do we learn about the survey of the 44,000 women?
15. What explanation does the speaker offer for the research finding?

#### Section C
Directions: In this section, you will hear three recordings of lectures or talks followed by three or four questions. The recordings will be played only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.

##### Recording One
Well my current research is really about consumer behavior. So recently I've looked at young people's drinking and it's obviously a major concern to Government at the moment.

I've also looked at how older people are represented in the media; again, it's of major current interest with older people becoming a much larger proportion of UK and indeed world society.

I'm also interested in how consumers operate online, and how that online behavior might be different from how they operate offline when they go to the shops.

Well, I think that the important thing here is to actually understand what's happening from the consumer's perspective. One of the things that businesses and indeed Government organizations often fail to do is to really see what is happening from the consumer's perspective.

For example, in the case of young people's drinking, one of the things that I've identified is that drinking for people say between the ages of 18 and 24 is all about the social activity.

A lot of the Government advertising has been about individual responsibility, but actually understanding that drinking is very much about the social activity and finding ways to help young people get home safely and not end up in hospital is one of the things that we've tried to present there.

The key thing about consumer behavior is that it's very much about how consumers change. Markets always change faster than marketing; so we have to look at what consumers are doing.

Currently I teach consumer behavior to undergraduates in their second year and we look at all kinds of things in consumer behavior and particularly how consumers are presented in advertising.

So they get involved by looking at advertising and really critically assessing the consumer behavior aspects of it and getting involved sometimes doing primary research.

For example, last year my students spent a week looking at their own purchasing and analyzed it in detail from shopping to the relationship that they have with their retail banks and their mobile phone providers. I think they found it very useful and it also helped them identify just what kind of budgets they had too. The fact of the matter is that there's a whole range of interesting research out there and I think as the years go on, there's going to be much more for us to consider and certainly much more for students to become involved in.

**Questions 16 to 18 are based on the recording you have just heard.**
16. What is the speaker currently doing?
17. What has the speaker found about young people's drinking?
18. What does the speaker say that his students did last year?

##### Recording Two
Sweden was the first European country to print and use paper money, but it may soon do away with physical currencies.

Banks can save a lot of money and avoid regulatory headaches by moving to a cash-free system, and they can also avoid bank robberies, theft, and dirty money.

Claer Barrett, the editor of Financial Times Money, says the Western world is headed toward a world without physical currency.

"Andy Holder — the chief economist at The Bank of England — suggested that the UK move towards a government-backed digital currency. But does a cashless society really make good economic sense?

"The fact that cash is being drawn out of society, is less a feature of our everyday lives, and the ease of electronic payments — is this actually making us spend more money without realizing it?"

Barrett wanted to find out if the absence of physical currency does indeed cause a person to spend more, so she decided to conduct an experiment a few months ago.

She decided that she was going to try to just use cash for two weeks to make all of her essential purchases and see what that would do to her spending. She found she did spend a lot less money because it is incredibly hard to predict how much cash one is going to need — she was forever drawing money out of cash points. Months later, she was still finding cash stuffed in her trouser pockets and the pockets of her handbags.

During the experiment, Barrett took a train ride. On the way, there was an announcement that the restaurant car was not currently accepting credit cards. The train cars were filled with groans because many of the passengers were traveling without cash.

"It underlines just how much things have changed in the last generation," Barrett says. "My parents, when they were younger, used to budget by putting money into envelopes — they'd get paid and they'd immediately separate the cash into piles and put them in envelopes, so they knew what they had to spend week by week. It was a very effective way for them to keep track of their spending. Nowadays, we're all on credit cards, we're doing online purchases, and money is kind of becoming a less physical and more imaginary type of thing that we can't get our hands around."

**Questions 19 to 22 are based on the recording you have just heard.**
19. What do we learn about Sweden?
20. What did Claer Barrett want to find out with her experiment?
21. What did Claer Barrett find on her train ride?
22. How did people of the last generation budget their spending?

##### Recording Three
Why should you consider taking a course in demography in college? You'll be growing up in a generation where the baby boomers are going into retirement and dying. You will face the problems in the aging of the population that have never been faced before. You will hear more and more about migration between countries and between rural areas and cities. You need to understand as a citizen and as a tax payer and as a voter what's really behind the arguments.

I want to tell you about the past, present and future of the human population. So let's start with a few problems. Right now, a billion people are chronically hungry. That means they wake up hungry, they are hungry all day, and they go to sleep hungry. A billion people are living in slums, not the same billion people, but there is some overlap. Living in slums means they don't have infrastructure to take the garbage away, they don't have secure water supplies to drink.

Nearly a billion people are illiterate. Try to imagine your life being illiterate. You can't read the labels on the bottles in the supermarket, if you can get to a supermarket. Two-thirds of those people who are illiterate are women and about 200 to 215 million women don't have access to birth control they want, so that they can control their own fertility. This is not only a problem in developing countries. About half of all pregnancies globally are unintended. So those are examples of population problems.

Demography gives you the tools to understand and to address these problems. It's not only the study of human population, but the populations of non-human species, including viruses like influenza, the bacteria in your gut, plants that you eat, animals that you enjoy or that provide you with meat. Demography also includes the study of non-living objects like light bulbs and taxi cabs, and buildings because these are also populations. It studies these populations, in the past, present and future, using quantitative data and mathematical models as tools of analysis.

I see demography as a central subject related to economics. It is the means to intervene more wisely, and more effectively in the real world, to improve the wellbeing, not only of yourself – important as that may be – but of people around you and of other species with whom we share the planet.

**Questions 23 to 25 are based on the recording you have just heard.**
23. What is one of the problems the speaker mentions in his talk?
24. What does the speaker say about pregnancies?
25. How does the speaker view the study of demography?

---

## 第二套

### Part Ⅱ Listening Comprehension (30 minutes)

#### Section A
Directions: In this section, you will hear two long conversations. At the end of each conversation, you will hear four questions. Both the conversation and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.

##### Conversation One
W: Mr. Ishiguro, have you ever found one of your books at a second-hand bookstore?

M: Yes. That kind of thing is difficult. If they've got my book there, I think "Well, this is an insult! Somebody didn't want to keep my book." But if it's not there, I feel it's an insult too. I think, "Why aren't people exchanging my book? Why isn't it in this store?"

W: Does being a writer require a thick skin?

M: Yes. For example, my wife can be very harsh. I began working on my latest book, The Buried Giant, in 2004, but I stopped after I showed my wife a little section. She thought it was rubbish.

W: Even after you won a Booker Prize?

M: She is not intimidated at all, and she criticises me in exactly the same way she did when I was first unpublished and I was starting.

W: But you would never compromise on your vision?

M: No. I wouldn't ever compromise on the essential, the ideas, or the themes. This isn't really what my wife is trying to criticise me about. It's always about execution.

W: So why did you put your book The Buried Giant aside for so long? Apparently, you started working on it over ten years ago.

M: I've often stopped writing the book and left it for a few years. And by the time I come back to it, it may have changed. Usually my imagination has moved on, and I can think of different contexts or a different way to do it.

W: What does it feel like when you finally finish a book?

M: It's funny you ask that, because I never have this moment when I feel "Ah, I've finished!" I watch footballers at the end of the match, you know; the whistle goes and they've won or lost. Until then, they've been giving everything they have, and at that moment they know it's over. It's funny for an author. There's never a finishing whistle.

**Questions 1 to 4 are based on the conversation you have just heard.**
1. How would the man feel if he found his book in a second-hand bookstore?
2. What does the man's wife think of his books?
3. What does the man do when he engages in writing?
4. What does the man want to say by mentioning the football match?

##### Conversation Two
W: According to a study of Race & Equity in Education, black athletes are dropping out of college across the country at alarming rates. With us to talk about the findings in the study is Washington Post columnist Kevin Blackstone. Good morning!

M: Good morning. How are you?

W: Fine, thank you. What is new that you found in this study?

M: Well, this is Shaun Harper's study. And he points out that on major college campuses across the country, black males make up less than 3 percent of undergraduate enrollments. Yet, when you look at their numbers or percentages on the revenue-generating sports teams of football and basketball, they make up well into 50-60 percent of those teams. So the idea is that they are really there to be part of the revenue-generating working class of athletes on campus, and not necessarily there to be part of the educating class as most students in other groups are.

W: Compared with other groups, I think the numbers in this group at those 65 schools are something like just barely more than half of the black male athletes graduate at all.

M: Exactly. And what's really bad about this is these athletes are supposedly promised at least one thing as reward for all their blood and sweat. And that is a college degree, which can be a transformative tool in our society when you talk about upward mobility. And that's really the troubling part about this.

W: Well, this has been talked about so much, really, in recent years. Why hasn't changed?

M: Well, I think one of the reasons it hasn't changed is because there is really no economic pressure to change this. All of the incentive is really on winning and not losing on the field or on the court. Coaches do not necessarily have the incentive to graduate players.

**Questions 5 to 8 are based on the conversation you have just heard.**
5. What are the speakers talking about?
6. What is the new finding about black male athletes in the study?
7. What is the graduation rate of black male athletes?
8. What accounts for black athletes' failure to obtain a college degree according to the man?

#### Section B
Directions: In this section, you will hear two passages. At the end of each passage, you will hear three or four questions. Both the passage and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.

##### Passage One
America's holiday shopping season starts on Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving. It is the busiest shopping day of the year. Retailers make the most money this time of year, about 20 to 30 percent of annual revenue. About 136 million people will shop during the Thanksgiving holiday weekend. More and more will shop online. In an era of instant information, shoppers can use their mobile phones to find deals.

About 183.8 million people will shop on Cyber Monday, the first Monday after Thanksgiving. More than half of all holiday purchases will be made online. One in five Americans will use a tablet or smartphone. Online spending on Black Friday will rise 15 percent to hit 2.7 billion dollars this year. Cyber Monday spending will increase 12 percent to 3 billion dollars.

For many, shopping online was "a more comfortable alternative" than crowded malls. The shift to online shopping has had a big impact on traditional shopping malls. Since 2010, more than 24 shopping malls have closed and an additional 60 are struggling. However, Fortune says the weakest of the malls have closed. The sector is thriving again. The International Council of Shopping Centers said 94.2 percent of malls were full, or occupied with shops by the end of 2014. That is the highest level in 27 years.

Economist, Gus Faucher, said lower unemployment and rising wages could give Americans more money to spend. The average American consumer will spend about 805 dollars on gifts. That's about 630.5 billion dollars between November and December, an increase of 3.7 percent from last year.

**Questions 9 to 12 are based on the passage you have just heard.**
9. What is the speaker mainly talking about?
10. How many people will shop on Cyber Monday?
11. What does Fortune say about traditional shopping malls?
12. What is said to account for the increase number of shoppers?

##### Passage Two
For years, many of us have relied on antibiotic use to treat various infections. And the reality is that antibiotics have been responsible for saving millions of lives since penicillin, one of the earliest antibiotics who's first used on a clinical basis 70 years ago.

However, today is a new era in which taking antibiotics can cause some very dangerous and potentially life-threatening situations. In fact, you may have heard about the new "superbugs", which are antibiotic-resistant bacteria that have developed as a result of overprescribed antibiotics.

In the past, health experts warned us that the day would come in which it would become very difficult to provide medical care for even common problems, such as lung infection or severe sore throat. And apparently that day has come, because seemingly routine operations such as knee replacements are now much more hazardous due to the looming threat of these infections.

The problem has grown into such epidemic proportions that this severe strain of resistant bacteria is being blamed for nearly 700,000 deaths each year throughout the world. And unfortunately, health experts worry that the number will rise to 10 million or more on a yearly basis by 2050.

With such a large life-threatening epidemic, it is sad to say that only 1.2 percent of budgetary money for the National Institutes of Health is currently being spent on research to tackle this problem. This is a far cry from the funds necessary for a problem of such magnitude.

**Questions 13 to 15 are based on the passage you have just heard.**
13. What do we learn about the "superbugs"?
14. What is the result of the overuse of antibiotics?
15. What is most urgently needed for tackling the large life-threatening epidemic, according to the speaker?

#### Section C
Directions: In this section, you will hear three recordings of lectures or talks followed by three or four questions. The recordings will be played only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.

##### Recording One
This is the reason you are here in a university. You are here to be educated. You are here to understand thinking better and to think better yourself. It's not a chance you are going to have throughout your lifetime. For the next few years, you have a chance to focus on thinking.

I think about some of the students who took advantage of their opportunities in a university. One of the stories I always like to tell is about a freshman seminar that I had a chance to teach at Harvard when I was President of the university. I taught a seminar on globalization and I assigned a reading that I had written about global capital flows. And as I did each week, I asked one of the students to introduce the reading.

And this younger man in October of his freshman year said something like the following. "The reading by President Simons on the flow of capital across countries, it was kind of interesting, but the data did not come close to supporting the conclusions." And I thought to myself, "What a fantastic thing this was!" How could somebody who had been there for five weeks tell the person who had the title President that he didn't really know what he was talking about? And it was a special moment.

Now, I don't want to be misunderstood. I explained to my student that I actually thought he was rather more confused than I was, and I argued back. But what was really important about that was the universities stand out as places that really are about the authority of ideas. You see it in faculty members who are pleased when their students make a discovery that undermines a cherished theory that they had put forward.

I think of another students I had who came to me one morning, one evening actually, walked into my office and said that I had written a pretty good paper, but that it had five important mistakes and that he wanted a job. You could debate whether they actually were mistakes, but you couldn't debate that young man's hunger to learn. You could not debate that that young man was someone who wanted to make a difference in economics and he is today a professor of economics and his works are more cited as an economist than any other economist in the world.

**Questions 16 to 18 are based on the recording you have just heard.**
16. What does the speaker say about a university?
17. What do we learn from the speaker's stories about universities?
18. What does the speaker see in the young man who challenged his paper?

##### Recording Two
Psychological research shows we consistently underestimate our mental powers. If you think this does not apply to you, then here is a simple test to show you're wrong. Write down the names of all the American states you can remember. Put the list away, and then set yourself the same task a week later. Provided you have not cheated by consulting an atlas, you will notice something rather surprising.

The two lists will contain roughly the same number of states, but they will not be identical. Some names will have slipped away, but others will have replaced them. This suggests that somewhere in your mind you may well have a record of virtually every state. So it is not really your memory letting you down, just your ability to retrieve information from it.

We would remember a lot more if we had more confidence in your memories and knew how to use them properly. One useful tip is that things are more likely to be remembered if you are in exactly the same state and place as you were when you learn them. So if you are a student who always reviews over black coffee, perhaps it would be sensible to prime yourself with a cup before the exam. If possible, you should also try to learn information in the room where it is going to be tested.

When you learn is also important. Lots of people swear they can absorb new information more efficiently at some times of the day than at others. Research shows this is not just imagination. There is a biological rhythm for learning, though it affects different people in different ways. For most of us, the best plan is to take in new information in the morning and then try to consolidate it into memory during the afternoon. But this does not apply to everyone, so it is essential to establish your own rhythm.

**Questions 19 to 22 are based on the recording you have just heard.**
19. What does psychological research show according to the speaker?
20. What do we find about the two lists of names of American states?
21. What is the useful tip the speaker gives?
22. What does the speaker advise us to do to improve our learning efficiency?

##### Recording Three
Hello, today I'm going to talk about poverty. Poverty has become a critical issue in today's world. It concerns not only us sociologists, but also economists, politicians and business people.

Poverty has been understood in many different ways. One useful way is to distinguish between three degrees of poverty: extreme poverty, moderate poverty, and relative poverty.

The first type of poverty is extreme poverty; it's also called absolute poverty. In extreme poverty, households cannot meet basic needs for survival. People are chronically hungry. They are unable to access safe drinking water, let alone health care. They cannot afford education for their children. In short, people who live in extreme poverty do not have even the minimum resources to support themselves and their families. Where does extreme poverty occur? Well, you can find it only in developing countries.

Well, what about moderate poverty? Unlike extreme poverty, moderate poverty generally refers to conditions of life in which basic needs are met but barely. People living in moderate poverty have the resources to keep themselves alive, but only at a very basic level. For example, they may have access to drinking water, but not clean, safe drinking water. They may have a home to shelter themselves, but it does not have power supply, a telephone or plumbing.

The third kind of poverty is relative poverty. Relative poverty is generally considered to be a household income level, which is below a given proportion of average family income. The relatively poor live in high-income countries, but they do not have a high income themselves. The method of calculating the poverty line is different from country to country, but we can say that basically a family living in relative poverty has less than a percentage of the average family income. For example, in the United States, a family can be considered poor if their income is less than 50% of the national average family income. They can meet their basic needs but they lack access to cultural goods, entertainment, and they cannot afford higher education.

**Questions 23 to 25 are based on the recording you have just heard.**
23. What is the speaker's profession?
24. Where does extreme poverty occur according to the speaker?
25. What does the speaker say about families living in relative poverty in the United States?

